I'm going to show you how to prepare and
cook a squid the squid that I have today
is a narrow squid and it's come with
still has its membrane and its innards
and its tentacles attached to prepare it
what I'm going to do first of all is
take hold of the squid and just gently
pull out the tentacles they will come
loose from the main body the some parts
that I don't want to keep or cook and
I'm going to just cut just below the eye
you can see the eye here I'm just using
a sharp knife to cut through there and
that is then going to be discarded the
other part that I need to check is the
beak or mouthpiece of the squid that's
going to be discarded and I also want to
just trim off the long tentacles as well
take those level tentacles could be used
for stock they don't necessarily need to
be thrown away and that's the one part
ready to cook with the main hood or head
of the squid what I'm going to do is
pinch the two fins together and thread
my thumb through to the other side and
pull those free and then what I'm going
to do is peel off the membrane from the
squid and that's going to get discarded
in order to prepare that I want to put
out what is like a modified internal
shell that wants to get removed and then
I'm going to clean the body of the squid
by just using the back of my knife and
to remove as much of the innards as I
possibly can
I'm going to run my knife up the middle
open it out flat and I can remove the
remainder of the contents that I no
longer need you now need to rinse the
squid in a little bit of running cold
water and then we're ready to think
about preparing it for cooking you can
either cut it into slices alternatively
what I can do is score the squid and
using a knife and cutting at an angle
I'm going to mark into the squid using a
very sharp knife best done at an angle
so you don't cut straight through
because it's a very tender a bit of
flesh and all the way up the length of
the body once we've done that
we can then cut the squid in half and in
sections again ready for cooking so that
is now ready we've got the tentacles
that can be cooked we don't need to take
the membrane off those as a perfect as
they are moving on from that I then
ready to actually cook the squid I have
some that we've prepared already and to
cook that I've got a pan with a hot oil
in that hot oil I'm going to add just a
little bit of chopped garlic a little
bit of chili going in as well cook that
for a moment just to allow that to
infuse the oil and then straight in with
the squid we just want to cook this
squid for somewhere between 30 and 40
seconds and still the squid has lost its
translucency keep it on the move it's
important when your pan frying something
like this not to put too much in the pan
at once anymore than just sort of half a
dozen pieces or so you're going to find
that the temperature the pan drops and
we set a pan frying or cooking the squid
what's going to happen this will begin
to stew the tentacles of curl that
really nicely and I'm now going to just
finish off by splash of soy sauce onto a
bit of rice wine little bit of chopped
coriander get that nicely coated and
then straight into a dish for serving
and there just pile it up really nice
and high and that's how you cook and
prepare squid